beastmaster-movie-release
release of the movie The Beastmaster
release of the movie The Beastmaster
movies
1982
One of the pinnacle achievements of the sword and sorcery movie genre.

conan-the-barbarian-movie-release
release of the movie Conan the Barbarian
release of the movie Conan the Barbarian
movies
1982
Not as good as The Beastmaster, but Conan the
Barbarian earned lead actor Arnold
Schwarzenegger worldwide recognition.


apollo-11-moon-landing
Apollo 11 Moon Landing
Apollo 11 Moon Landing
space
1969
Apollo 11 (July 16–24, 1969) was the American spaceflight that first landed
humans on the Moon.

first-flight
Wright brothers' first flight
Wright brothers' first flight
technology
1903
The Wright Brothers did not solely rely on engine power to lift their flying
machines off the ground. Instead, they emphasized the importance of piloting
skills. Through over a thousand gliding flights from the top of Kill Devil
Hill, the brothers were able to identify the engineering principles that allow
for lift and the necessary controls to maintain an aircraft in flight.

forrest-gump-in-vietnam-war
character Forrest Gump being in the Vietnam War
character Forrest Gump in the Vietnam War
movies
1967


forrest-gump-movie-release
release of the movie Forrest Gump
release of the movie Forrest Gump
movies
1994


nes
NES release in North America
Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) released in North America
videogames
1985
The NES ran at 60FPS… unless you had a bunch of sprites on the screen.

snes
Super Nintendo being released in North America
Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES) released in North America
videogames
1991
No more hard angles on these controllers. And six action buttons!

earliest-electronic-game
earliest known publicly demonstrated electronic game
earliest known publicly demonstrated electronic game
videogames
1950
The earliest known publicly demonstrated electronic game was created in 1950.
Bertie the Brain was an arcade game of tic-tac-toe, built by Josef Kates for
the 1950 Canadian National Exhibition.

earliest-videogame
earliest videogame
earliest videogame
videogames
1958
"Tennis for Two" was the first videogame that was open to the general public.
Prior games were entirely research projects or technology demonstrations. It
was played on an oscilloscope which presented a side view of a tennis match.
The custom built controller had a button to take a shot and a knob to adjust a
shot's angle. Even this earliest videogame was very popular with long lines of
people queuing up for a turn to play.

first-clamshell-laptop
first clamshell laptop (GRiD Compass)
first clamshell laptop (GRiD Compass)
technology
1982
The GRiD Compass was the first clamshell laptop. It weighed 10 pounds but is
still considered the first truly portable laptop computer.

gutenberg-printing-press
Gutenberg printing press being introduced in Europe
Gutenberg printing press introduced in Europe
technology
1439
Around this time Johannes Gutenberg, of the German city of Mainz, introduced
the printing press to Europe.

first-movie
first movie ever recorded
first movie ever recorded
movies
1878
An 11-frame clip of man riding a horse. It was recorded by Eadweard Eadweard
using 12 separate cameras that he designed to have a then cutting edge 1/25th
of a second shutter speed. He also designed the zoöpraxiscope as a mechanism
to view the photos as a movie.

erlang-lang
Erlang programming language being introduced
Erlang programming language introduced
programming
1986
Developed and designed by Joe Armstrong, Erlang was originally proprietary to
the Ericsson company. Erlang wasn't open sourced until years later in 1998.
Erlang is fundamentally designed to be distributed, fault tolerant, soft
realtime, and highly available. Erlang provides developer friendly concurrency
abstractions, functional programming, and immutable data.

erlang-open-sourced
Erlang programming language being open sourced
Erlang programming language open sourced
programming
1998
Jane Walerud is credited with the heroic effort of convincing Ericsson
management that is was in everyone's best interest to open source Erlang and
OTP. This was a monumental feat as the very term "open-source" had only even
been coined a few months prior.

elixir-lang
Elixir programming language being introduced
Elixir programming language introduced
programming
2012
In 2012 José Valim publicly introduced Elixir to the world as a new
syntactically approachable language for the BEAM (Erlang's VM). Elixir has
grown extremely popular in the years since and noted for its ease of use,
scalability, and reliability. (And it's running this website!)

javascript-lang
JavaScript language being introduced
JavaScript introduced
programming
1995
Long ago JavaScript was safely trapped within browser engines. Then everything
changed when Google open sourced Chrome and developers used its JavaScript
execution engine to build a server-side JavaScript runtime that we now call
NodeJS.

ruby-lang
Ruby programming language being introduced
Ruby programming language introduced
programming
1995
Ruby is an interpreted, high-level, scripting language with a strong
foundation in object oriented programming and famously expressive syntax. In
the words of creator Yukihiro Matsumoto: "I really wanted a genuine
object-oriented, easy-to-use scripting language. I looked for but couldn't
find one. So I decided to make it."

python-lang
Python programming language being introduced
Python programming language introduced
programming
1991
Introduced in 1991 by Guido van Rossum. Python was designed to have a small
core, large standard library, and to be easily extensible via modules. That
foundational design has kept Python popular in the decades since.

zork-i-released
release of Zork I
Infocom released Zork I
videogames
1980
Arguably the most famous work of interactive fiction and a huge financial
success for Infocom. In 2007, Zork was noted by the Library of Congress as one
of the ten most important video games of all time.

rocket-league-released
release of Rocket League
Rocket League released
videogames
2015
Soccer. With cars. That are also rockets. A simple game with a simple premise
and simple controls that ends up having a surprisingly deep skill well with
innovative mechanics still being discovered even years later.

secret-of-monkey-island-released
release of The Secret of Monkey Island
Lucasarts released The Secret of Monkey Island
videogames
1990
One of the foundational works of point and click gaming. Frustrated with the
"gotcha!" deaths and unwinnable states of contemporary adventure games,
creators Ron Gilbert and Tim Schafer designed Monkey Island so that it was
always possible to win. A design choice that continued through the rest of
Lucasarts adventure games.

wing-commander-released
release of Wing Commander
Origin Systems released Wing Commander
videogames
1990
A landmark game in the space combat genre.
Developed by Chris Roberts who is now working
to create Star Citizen.
